---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: default
---

# Semester 1: Core

## Format

Semester 1 is designed to introduce core business school subjects with a heavy emphasis on
Accounting. The [Wharton Accounting Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/finance-accounting)
from Coursera will be the backbone of the Semester, with an accompanying subject pulled from
the [HBS First Year Syllabus](https://www.hbs.edu/mba/academic-experience/curriculum/Pages/default.aspx).
Each unit will take about 4 weeks with an evaluation at the end of each section.

### Unit 0: Management
 - [Management Fundamentals](#management-fundamentals)
 - [Fundamentals of Project Planning and Management](#fundamentals-of-project-planning-and-management)

### Unit 1: Operations
 - [Accounting 1: Fundamentals](#accounting-1-fundamentals)
 - [Organizational Operations](#organizational-operations)

### Unit 2: Markets
 - [Accounting 2: Corporate Finance](#accounting-2-corporate-finance)
 - [Micro Econonomics](#micro-economics)
 - [Macro Econonomics](#macro-economics)

### Unit 3: Marketing
 - [Accounting 3: Financial Accounting I](#accounting-3-financial-accounting-i)
 - [Introduction to Marketing](#introduction-to-marketing)
 - Optional: [Digital Marketing](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/digital-marketing)

### Unit 4: Investing
 - [Accounting 4: Financial Accounting II](#accounting-4-financial-accounting-ii)
 - [Investing 1: Fundamentals of Performance
     Evaluation](#investing-1-fundamentals-of-performance-evaluation)

***

# Semester 2: Entrepreneurship + Cases

## Format

The backbone of this section is a [4-Unit specialization on entreprenuership](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/wharton-entrepreneurship), similar to the
accounting series done in semester 1. Simultaneously, you will begin a "practicum" section, starting
with a 6-week "Aspiring Founder" course from YCombinator and ending with interviews, lecture series,
and hackathons to get out of the classroom a bit.

### Unit 1
 - [Entrepreneurship 1: Developing the Opportunity](#entrepreneurship-1-developing-the-opportunity)
 - [Startup School I](#startup-school)

### Unit 2
 - [Entrepreneurship 2: Launching](#entrepreneurship-2-launching)
 - [Startup School II](#startup-school)

### Unit 3
 - [Entrepreneurship 3: Growth](#entrepreneurship-3-growth)
 - Practicum

### Unit 4
 - [Entrepreneurship 4: Financing and Profitability](#entrepreneurship-4-financing-and-profitability)
 - Practicum

***

# Additional Work

## Case Studies

Many of the classes mentioned above will provide case studies specific to the subject matter being
taught, but additionally, after the initial unit of semester 1, you will go through one additional
case study per week. Harvard Business Review curates a [list of case
studies](https://hbr.org/case-selections) for purchase, so these can be selected for specific
interest. If the curated list is not sufficient, there is also a [wider library
available](https://store.hbr.org/case-studies/?ab=store_hp_nav_-_cases).

## Homework

A database of homework assignments from our TAs is available in certain subjects, in particular
accounting, if additional practice is desired.

## Speaker Series

Many business schools offer recorded speaker series on their websites, which quickly provide
excellent, real experience on specific industries and subjects.

### Stanford

Stanford provides recordings of their speakers for the [general business
school](https://www.gsb.stanford.edu/experience/learning/guest-speakers) as well as for their
[leadership school](https://gsb-courses.stanford.edu/leadership-for-society/).

### Harvard

Harvard's BioTech club offers [speaker series online](https://www.thebiotechclub.org/lecture-based-learning). 

### Wharton

Penn's finance department offers [speaker series online](https://fnce.wharton.upenn.edu/speaker-series/), though none are currently scheduled.

### Podcasts, MeetUps, YouTube

There's a huge amount of content online! Here is a curated list of healthcare podcasts, MIT offers a
series of [class lectures on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/MIT), and MeetUp offers tons of
[industry-specific lectures and networking events in San Francisco](https://www.meetup.com/topics/san-francisco/us/ca/san_francisco/).

## Interviews

Professor Emeritus Jackson has offered to put students in touch with contacts in different startups
with which he has established relationships. Additionally, he has recently started doing work with
the [Artemis Fund](https://theartemisfund.com), and believes it might provide additionally interesting networking opportunities.

***

# Coursework

## Management

### [Management Fundamentals](https://www.coursera.org/learn/management-fundamentals-healthcare-administrators)

#### Summary

People are the most valuable asset of any business, but they are also the most unpredictable, and
the most difficult asset to manage. And although managing people well is critical to the health of
any organization, most managers don't get the training they need to make good management decisions.
Now, award-winning authors and renowned management Professors Mike Useem and Peter Cappelli of the
Wharton School have designed this course to introduce you to the key elements of managing people.
Based on their popular course at Wharton, this course will teach you how to motivate individual
performance and design reward systems, how to design jobs and organize work for high performance,
how to make good and timely management decisions, and how to design and change your organization’s
architecture. By the end of this course, you'll have developed the skills you need to start
motivating, organizing, and rewarding people in your organization so that you can thrive as a
business and as a social organization.


#### Content

 - Motivation and Reward
 - Tasks, Jobs, and Systems of Work
 - Making Good and Timely Management Decisions
 - Designing and Changing the Organization's Architecture

### [Fundamentals of Project Planning and Management](https://www.coursera.org/learn/uva-darden-project-management)

#### Summary

Projects are all around us. Virtually every organization runs projects, either formally or
informally. We are engaged in projects at home and at work. Across settings, planning principles and
execution methodologies can offer ways in which projects can be run more effectively and
efficiently. Project management provides organizations (and individuals) with the language and the
frameworks for scoping projects, sequencing activities, utilizing resources, and minimizing risks.

#### Content

 - Welcome to the World of Projects
 - The Ins and Outs of Project Planning
 - It's a Risky World and Then the Unexpected Happens
 - Ready, Set, Go: Project Execution

## Accounting

[Intro to Finance and Accounting Specialization (Wharton)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/finance-accounting)

This class "series" is a collection of courses from Wharton designed to give a wide overview of
subjects in corporate accounting. It has four classes, each designed to last about four weeks.

### [Accounting 1: Fundamentals](https://www.coursera.org/learn/finance-fundamentals)

#### Summary

In this course, you’ll learn the basic fundamentals of corporate finance. Based on the pre-term
qualifying courses for Wharton MBA students, Professor Jessica Wachter has designed this course for
learners who need a refresher in financial concepts, or for those who are learning about corporate
finance for the first time. You’ll identify foundational concepts in corporate finance, such as NPV,
Compound and Simple Interest, and Annuities versus Perpetuities. You’ll also learn how to apply the
NPV framework to calculating fixed-income valuation and Equity, using hypothetical examples of
corporate projects. By the end of this course, you’ll have honed your skills in calculating risk and
returns to optimize investments, and be able to assess the right set of financial information to
achieve better returns for your firm.

#### Content

 - Introduction and Net Present Value (NPV)
 - Fixed Income Valuation
 - Equity Valuation
 - NPV vs. Internal Rate of Return

### [Accounting 2: Corporate Finance](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-finance)

#### Summary

This course provides a brief introduction to the fundamentals of finance, emphasizing
their application to a wide variety of real-world situations spanning personal finance, corporate
decision-making, and financial intermediation. Key concepts and applications include: time value of
money, risk-return tradeoff, cost of capital, interest rates, retirement savings, mortgage
financing, auto leasing, capital budgeting, asset valuation, discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis,
net present value, internal rate of return, hurdle rate, payback period.

#### Content

 - Time Value of Money
 - Interest Rates
 - Discounted Cash Flow Analysis
 - Return on Investment

### [Accounting 3: Financial Accounting I](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-accounting)

#### Summary

Master the technical skills needed to analyze financial statements and disclosures for use in
financial analysis, and learn how accounting standards and managerial incentives affect the
financial reporting process. By the end of this course, you’ll be able to read the three most common
financial statements: the income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows. Then you can
apply these skills to a real-world business challenge as part of the Wharton Business Foundations
Specialization.

#### Content

 - Balance Sheet
 - Accrual Accounting and the Income Statement
 - Cash Flows
 - Ratio Analysis and the Final Exam

### [Accounting 4: Financial Accounting II](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-financial-accounting)

#### Summary

The course builds on my Introduction to Financial Accounting course, which you should complete
first. In this course, you will learn how to read, understand, and analyze most of the information
provided by companies in their financial statements.  These skills will help you make more informed
decisions using financial information.

#### Content

 - Working Capital Assets
 - Long-lived Assets and Marketable Securities
 - Liabilities and Long-term Debt
 - Deferred Taxes

### Additional Resources

[Intro to Finance: The basics (UI)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-to-finance-the-basics)

[Advanced Financial Reporting (UI)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/advanced-financial-reporting)

[Understanding Financial Statements (UI)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/income-statement)

[Formal Financial Accounting (UI)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/formal-financial-accounting)

[Hacker News Advice](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=29625571)

***

## Organizational Behavior / Structure

### [Organizational Operations](https://www.coursera.org/learn/organizational-analysis)

#### Summary

In this introductory, self-paced course, you will learn multiple theories of organizational behavior
and apply them to actual cases of organizational change.


Organizations are groups whose members coordinate their behaviors in order to accomplish a shared
goal. They can be found nearly everywhere in today’s society: universities, start-ups, classrooms,
hospitals, non-profits, government bureaus, corporations, restaurants, grocery stores, and
professional associations are some of many examples of organizations.


Organizations are as varied and complex as they are ubiquitous: they differ in size and internal
structure; they can entail a multiplicity of goals and tasks (some of which are planned and others
unplanned!); they are made up of individuals whose goals and motivations may differ from those of
the group; and they must interact with other organizations and deal with environmental constraints
in order to be successful. This complexity frequently results in a myriad of problems for
organizational participants and the organization’s survival.


In this course, we will use organizational theories to systematically analyze how an organization
operates and can best be managed. Organizational theories highlight certain features of an
organization’s structure and environment, as well as its processes of negotiation, production, and
change. Each provides a lens for interpreting novel organizational situations and developing a sense
for how individual and group behaviors are organized. Theories are valuable for the analyst and
manager because most organizational problems are unique to the circumstances and cannot be solved by
simple rules of thumb. Armed with a toolset of organizational theories, you will be able to
systematically identify important features of an organization and the events transforming it; choose
a theoretical framework most applicable to the observed mode of organizing; and use that theory to
determine which actions will best redirect the organization in desired directions.


In sum, the course has three goals: to become familiar with a series of real-world organizational
phenomena; to learn different theoretical perspectives that can elucidate these phenomena; and to
apply these different ways of “seeing” and managing organizations to cases. In such a fashion, the
course is designed to actively bridge theory and practice, exposing students to a variety of
conceptual tools and ways to negotiate novel situations.

#### Content

 - Decisions by Rational and Rule-based Procedures
 - Decisions by Dominant Coalitions
 - Organized Anarchy

### Additional Resources

[Organizational Behavior: How to Manage People (IESE)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/managing-people-iese)

[HN Article](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=28772033)

***

## Markets / Econ

### [Micro Econonomics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/microeconomics-part1)

#### Summary

We make economics decisions every day: what to buy, whether to work or play, what to study. We
respond to markets all the time: prices influence our decisions, markets signal where to put effort,
they direct firms to produce certain goods over others. Economics is all around us.

This course is an introduction to the microeconomic theory of markets: why we have them, how they
work, what they accomplish. We will start with the concept of scarcity and how specialization
according to comparative advantage helps us achieve more than we could alone. Next we model a marked
using the tools of Supply and Demand and learn what well working markets accomplish and what their
limit are. We end by exploring the impact of government intervention on perfect markets. Examples
are taken from everyday life, from goods and services that we all purchase and use. We will apply
the theory to current events and policy debates through weekly exercises. These will empower you to
be an educated, critical thinker who can understand, analyze and evaluate market outcomes.

#### Content

 - The Concept of Scarcity
 - Specialization and Trade
 - Supply and Demand
 - Understanding Markets: Elasticities, Market Surplus, Efficiency, and Equity

### [Macro Econonomics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/country-level-economics)

#### Summary

This course discusses   how macroeconomic variables affect individuals’ personal, professional, and
public activities and lays the foundation for the analysis of the mechanisms that drive
macroeconomic variables. It starts by introducing the key macroeconomic variables and explaining how
they are defined and measured to interpret macroeconomic data properly.

Then, the course offers a perspective for separating out various parts of the economy driven by
different processes and for combining those components to develop a richer view of the whole. In
particular, it applies this approach to the analysis of the relationship of the trade deficit with
the budget deficit and private savings, offering insights about some key determinants of the balance
of payments. The third and fourth modules focus on the analyses of the foreign currency and money
markets to provide fundamental models of the interest rate and exchange rate determination. They
also discuss how these variables interact with each other and with the macroeconomic conditions,
particularly monetary policy, and the expectations about the future trends in the economy.  

#### Content

 - Key Macroeconomic Indicators and Their Measurement
 - GDP Components, Twin Deficits, and Balance of Payments
 - The Foreign Exchange Market
 - Money, Interest Rate, and the Exchange Rate

### Additional Resources

[Financial Markets (Yale)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/financial-markets-global)

[Understanding Financial Markets (Geneva)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/understanding-financial-markets)

*** 

## Management

NOTE: None of these classes are scheduled! Additional resources listed in case you'd like to add to
exising coursework.

### Additional Resources

[Manager's Toolkit (ULondon)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/people-management)

[Management Fundamentals (Wharton)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/management-fundamentals-healthcare-administrators)

[Google PM (Goooog)](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-project-management)

[Leading People and Teams (UMich)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/leading-teams)

***

## Marketing

### [Introduction to Marketing](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-marketing)

#### Summary

Taught by three of Wharton's top faculty in the marketing department, consistently ranked as the #1
marketing department in the world, this course covers three core topics in customer loyalty:
branding, customer centricity, and practical, go-to-market strategies.

You’ll learn key principles in:

 - Branding: brand equity is one of the key elements of keeping customers in a dynamic world in which new startups are emerging constantly.
 - Customer centricity: not synonymous with customer service, customer centricity starts with customer focus and need-gathering.
 - Go-to-market strategies: understand the drivers that influence customers and see how these are implemented prior to making an investment.

Complete this course as part of Wharton's Business Foundations Specialization, and you'll have the
opportunity to take the Capstone Project and prepare a strategic analysis and proposed solution to a
real business challenge from Wharton-governed companies like Shazam and SnapDeal or to a challenge
faced by your own company or organization. Wharton-trained staff will evaluate the top submissions,
and leadership teams at Shazam and SnapDeal will review the highest scoring projects prepared for
their companies.

#### Content

 - Branding
 - Customer Centricity
 - Go to Market Strategies

### Additional Resources

[Digital Marketing Series (UI)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/digital-marketing)

***

## Investing

### [Investing 1: Fundamentals of Performance Evaluation](https://www.coursera.org/learn/investments-fundamentals)

#### Summary

In this course, we will discuss fundamental principles of trading off risk and return, portfolio
optimization, and security pricing. We will study and use risk-return models such as the Capital
Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and multi-factor models to evaluate the performance of various securities
and portfolios. Specifically, we will learn how to interpret and estimate regressions that provide
us with both a benchmark to use for a security given its risk (determined by its beta), as well as a
risk-adjusted measure of the security’s performance (measured by its alpha). Building upon this
framework, market efficiency and its implications for patterns in stock returns and the
asset-management industry will be discussed. Finally, the course will conclude by connecting
investment finance with corporate finance by examining firm valuation techniques such as the use of
market multiples and discounted cash flow analysis. The course emphasizes real-world examples and
applications in Excel throughout. This course is the first of two on Investments that I am offering
online (“Investments II: Lessons and Applications for Investors” is the second course).

The over-arching goals of this course are to build an understanding of the fundamentals of
investment finance and provide an ability to implement key asset-pricing models and firm-valuation
techniques in real-world situations. Specifically, upon successful completion of this course, you
will be able to:

 - Explain the tradeoffs between risk and return
 - Form a portfolio of securities and calculate the expected return and standard deviation of that portfolio
 - Understand the real-world implications of the Separation Theorem of investments
 - Use the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and 3-Factor Model to evaluate the performance of an asset (like stocks) through regression analysis
 - Estimate and interpret the ALPHA (α) and BETA (β) of a security, two statistics commonly reported on financial websites
 - Describe what is meant by market efficiency and what it implies for patterns in stock returns and for the asset-management industry
 - Understand market multiples and income approaches to valuing a firm and its stock, as well as the sensitivity of each approach to assumptions made
 - Conduct specific examples of a market multiples valuation and a discounted cash flow valuation

#### Content

 - Investments Toolkit and Portfolio Formation
 - Motivating, Explaining, & Implementing the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)
 - Testing the CAPM, Multifactor Models, & Market Efficiency
 - Investment Finance and Corporate Finance: Firm Valuation

### Additional Resources

[Investing 2: Lessons and Applications for Investors](https://www.coursera.org/learn/investments-applications)

***

## Entrepreneurship

[Wharton Entrepreneurship Series](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/wharton-entrepreneurship)

Similar to the accounting program, this is a 4-class specialization that gives an overview of topics
in entrepreneuship.

### [Entrepreneurship 1: Developing the Opportunity](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-entrepreneurship-opportunity)

#### Summary

How does a good idea become a viable business opportunity? What is entrepreneurship and who fits the
profile of an entrepreneur? This introductory course is designed to introduce you to the
foundational concepts of entrepreneurship, including the definition of entrepreneurship, the profile
of the entrepreneur, the difference between entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial management, and the
role of venture creation in society. You’ll explore where technology entrepreneurship and impact
entrepreneurship align and where they diverge, and you’ll learn proven techniques for identifying
the opportunity, assessing the opportunity, hypothesis testing and creating a prototype.

By the end of this course, you’ll know how to test, validate and prototype your idea, and also
whether or not you fit the profile of an entrepreneur! You’ll also be ready to move on to the next
phase of entrepreneurship in Entrepreneurship 2: Launching the Start-Up.

#### Content

 - Intro
 - Opportunity Analysis
 - Markets, Need-Finding and Planning
 - Pitching, Testing, and Prototyping

### [Entrepreneurship 2: Launching](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-launching-startup)

#### Summary

Once you have a prototype and a clearer vision of the opportunity, you’ll need to create a small
organization to discover how to create a repeatable and scalable business model. Designed to provide
you with a comprehensive overview of the critical components of creating a start-up,
Entrepreneurship 2: Launching the Start-up, provides practical, real-world knowledge about the lean
approach, the minimum viable product, when to pivot, when to quit your day job, the art of the
pitch, building and managing a team, allocating equity, and building your external team, advisory
board members, professional services, and entrepreneurial strategy. At the end of this course,
you’ll be able to create a strategy for launch, including knowing who you need to hire, how to
manage them to provide the greatest value, and what legal aspects are involved. You’ll also be
prepared for Entrepreneurship 3: Growth Strategies.

#### Content
 - Preparing to Launch
 - Building the Team
 - Networks, Professional Services, and Intellectual Property
 - Branding, Strategy, and Summary


### [Entrepreneurship 3: Growth](https://www.coursera.org/learn/growth-strategy)

#### Summary

Start-ups are designed to grow quickly, but successful start-ups grow smart. This course is designed
to provide you with an understanding of the essential elements of successful scaling, including an
overview of demand generation, customer acquisition, adoption, diffusion and forecasting demand.
You’ll also learn how to market effectively using best practices of digital marketing, social media,
PR, SEO, and pricing. Finally, you’ll cover the nuts and bolts of building a sales process,
partnerships and supply relationships, and examine the crucial components of attracting, developing
and retaining talent. By the end of this course, you’ll have an outline of an expansion strategy for
your idea or enterprise, and also be ready for Entrepreneurship 4: Financing and Profitability.

#### Content

 - Acquiring Customers and Forecasting Demand
 - Marketing and PR
 - Cost Structures, Pricing, Tracking
 - Creating and Scaling Company Culture

### [Entrepreneurship 4: Financing and Profitability](https://www.coursera.org/learn/wharton-entrepreneurship-financing-profitabilty)

#### Summary

Start-ups can benefit from a wide variety of financing options on the path to profitability, but how
do you know which one to choose? This course explores different financing models, including
bootstrapping, organic growth, debt and risk capital, and also provides a clear overview of equity
financing including the key types of investors: angels, venture capital, and crowdfunding. You’ll
learn about terms, and term sheets, exit modes and what exit strategy might be best for you. By the
end of this course, you’ll have an understanding of what success looks like and how it can be
financed. You’ll also be ready for the capstone project, in which you will get feedback on your own
pitch deck, and may even be selected to pitch to investors from venture capital firms.

#### Content

 - Business Models and Keeping Customers
 - Financing, Valuation, and Terms
 - Private and Public Financing, and Calculating Breakeven
 - Elements of the Pitch and Exit Strategies

### [Startup School](https://www.startupschool.org/aspiring-founders)

#### Summary

The Aspiring Founders course is a set of classes provided by Y Combinator designed for entrepreneurs
who do not yet have a project they are working on. It is a separate program from their normal
Startup School, which is designed to accompany a very early-stage startup. It is taugt by a variety
of founders, and offers a weekly video chat to discuss the material and network.

#### Content

 - Before the Startup
 - Why to Not Not Start a Startup
 - Future Founders Track Welcome
 - How to Get Startup Ideas
 - How to Pitch Your Startup
 - How to Talk to Users
 - How to Split Equity Among Co-Founders
 - How to Work Together
 - How to Find the Right Co-Founder
 - How to Prioritize Your Time
 - How to Launch (Again and Again)
 - How to Plan an MVP
 - Future Founders Parting Advice
 - Startup = Growth
 - Do Things That Don't Scale
 - YC’s Essential Startup Advice
